Kubernetes 1.24: contextual logging blog post (#304)
kubernetes/contributor-site: content/en/blog/2022/2022-05-25-contextual-logging.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Contextual Logging in Kubernetes 1.24"
date: 2022-05-25
slug: contextual-logging
---

 **Authors:** Patrick Ohly (Intel)

The [Structured Logging Working
Group](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/wg-structured-logging/README.md)
has added new capabilities to the logging infrastructure in Kubernetes
1.24. This blog post explains how developers can take advantage of those to
make log output more useful and how they can get involved with improving Kubernetes.

> ## Structured Logging

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
## Structured logging
```
(based on style guide for https://k8s.io/ and its blog)

lines
with quite a bit
of text. internal:0}
I1112 14:06:35.783549  328441 structured_logging.go:52] "using InfoS with\nthe message across multiple lines" int=1 stringData="long: Multiple\nlines\nwith quite a bit\nof text." str="another value"
```

Now, the `<` and `>` markers along with indentation are used to ensure that splitting at a
klog header at the start of a line is reliable and the resulting output is human-readable:

```
I1126 10:31:50.378204  121736 structured_logging.go:59] "using InfoS" longData=<
	{Name:long Data:Multiple
	lines
	with quite a bit
	of text. internal:0}
 >
I1126 10:31:50.378228  121736 structured_logging.go:60] "using InfoS with\nthe message across multiple lines" int=1 stringData=<
	long: Multiple
	lines
	with quite a bit
	of text.
 > str="another value"
```

Note that the log message itself is printed with quoting. It is meant to be a
fixed string that identifies a log entry, so newlines should be avoided there.

Before Kubernetes 1.24, some log calls in kube-scheduler still used `klog.Info`
for multi-line strings to avoid the unreadable output. Now all log calls have
been updated to support structured logging.

> ## Contextual Logging

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
## Contextual logging
```
(based on style guide for https://k8s.io/ and its blog)

in the Kubernetes repository demonstrates how to enable contextual logging in a
binary and how the output depends on the binary's parameters:

```console
$ cd $GOPATH/src/k8s.io/kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/component-base/logs/example/cmd/
$ go run . --help
...
      --feature-gates mapStringBool  A set of key=value pairs that describe feature gates for alpha/experimental features. Options are:
                                     AllAlpha=true|false (ALPHA - default=false)
                                     AllBeta=true|false (BETA - default=false)
                                     ContextualLogging=true|false (ALPHA - default=false)
$ go run . --feature-gates ContextualLogging=true
...
I0404 18:00:02.916429  451895 logger.go:94] "example/myname: runtime" foo="bar" duration="1m0s"
I0404 18:00:02.916447  451895 logger.go:95] "example: another runtime" foo="bar" duration="1m0s"
```

The `example` prefix and `foo="bar"` were added by the caller of the function
which logs the `runtime` message and `duration="1m0s"` value.

> An example for a unit test with per-test output is [included in klog](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog/blob/v2.60.1/ktesting/example/example_test.go).

Reviewer: You could also write, eg:
```suggestion
The sample code for klog includes an an
[example](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog/blob/v2.60.1/ktesting/example/example_test.go)
for a unit test with per-test output.
```

which [uses the active voice](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#use-active-voice).

Author: Accepted with fix for "an an".

Reviewer: Ah yep. Thanks.

implements logging through `testing.T` using klog's text output format. It has
a [single API call](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2@v2.60.1/ktesting#NewTestContext) for
instrumenting a test case and [support for command line flags](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2@v2.60.1/ktesting/init).

### klogr

[`klog/klogr`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2@v2.60.1/klogr) continues to be
supported and it's default behavior is unchanged: it formats structured log
entries using its own, custom format and prints the result via klog.

However, this usage is discouraged because that format is neither
machine-readable (in contrast to real JSON output as produced by zapr, the
go-logr implementation used by Kubernetes) nor human-friendly (in contrast to
the klog text format).

Instead, a klogr instance should be created with
[`WithFormat(FormatKlog)`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2@v2.60.1/klogr#WithFormat)
which chooses the klog text format. A simpler construction method with the same
result is the new
[`klog.NewKlogr`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2#NewKlogr). That is the
logger that klog returns as fallback when nothing else is configured.

> ### reusable output test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reusable output test
```

caveats like for example a `String` function that panics when called, then it
is likely that both the handling of such caveats and the unit test are missing.

[`klog.test`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2@v2.60.1/test) is a reusable set
of test cases that can be applied to a go-logr implementation.

### Output flushing

klog used to start a goroutine unconditionally during `init` which flushed
buffered data at a hard-coded interval. Now that goroutine is only started on
demand (i.e. when writing to files with buffering) and can be controlled with
[`StopFlushDaemon`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2#StopFlushDaemon) and
[`StartFlushDaemon`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2#StartFlushDaemon).

When a go-logr implementation buffers data, flushing that data can be
integrated into [`klog.Flush`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2#Flush) by
registering the logger with the
[`FlushLogger`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2#FlushLogger) option.

### Various other changes

For a description of all other enhancements see in the [release notes](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog/releases).

## logcheck

Originally designed as a linter for structured log calls, the

> [`logcheck`](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog/tree/main/hack/tools/logcheck)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 [`logcheck`](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog/tree/788efcdee1e9be0bfbe5b076343d447314f2377e/hack/tools/logcheck)
```
unless we are confident that the layout of `/hack` in that repo is fixed enough that this link won't go stale.

tool has been enhanced to support also contextual logging and traditional klog
log calls. These enhanced checks already found bugs in Kubernetes, like calling
`klog.Info` instead of `klog.Infof` with a format string and parameters.

It can be included as a plugin in a `golangci-lint` invocation, which is how
[Kubernetes uses it now](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/commit/17e3c555c5115f8c9176bae10ba45baa04d23a7b),
or get invoked stand-alone.

> We are in the process of moving the tool into a [new repository](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog/issues/312) because it isn't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are in the process of [moving the tool]((https://github.com/kubernetes/klog/issues/312)
into a new Git repository, because it isn't
```

Previous link text suggested it would be a link to the new repo, but actually wasn't.

Author: Accepted with minor syntax fix.

---
layout: blog
title: "Contextual Logging in Kubernetes 1.24"
date: 2022-05-25
slug: contextual-logging
---

 **Authors:** Patrick Ohly (Intel)

The [Structured Logging Working
Group](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/wg-structured-logging/README.md)
has added new capabilities to the logging infrastructure in Kubernetes
1.24. This blog post explains how developers can take advantage of those to

> make log output more useful.

Reviewer 2: suggestion: put a call for "and you can join us and help" here too, not just at the bottom

Author: Makes sense, will change it.

## Structured Logging

The goal for [structured
logging](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-instrumentation/1602-structured-logging/README.md)
is to replace C-style formatting and the resulting opaque log strings with log
entries that have a well-defined syntax for storing message and parameters
separately, for example as a JSON struct.

When using the traditional klog text output format for structured log calls,
strings were originally printed with `\n` escape sequences, except when
embedded inside a struct. For structs, log entries could still span multiple
lines, with no clean way to split the log stream into individual entries:

```
I1112 14:06:35.783529  328441 structured_logging.go:51] "using InfoS" longData={Name:long Data:Multiple
lines
with quite a bit
of text. internal:0}
I1112 14:06:35.783549  328441 structured_logging.go:52] "using InfoS with\nthe message across multiple lines" int=1 stringData="long: Multiple\nlines\nwith quite a bit\nof text." str="another value"
```

Now `<` and `>` markers and indention are used to ensure that splitting at a
klog header at the start of a line is reliable and the output remains readable

> for humans:

Reviewer 2: so ... what happens if the message text contains a ">" ?

Author: It will be indented, in contrast to the `>` end marker which isn't.

Author: I thought they were indented differently - let me double check.

Author: Right, the value uses \t and the end marker a single space.

This isn't visible when looking at the diff, but renders okay when looking at the full file.

Reviewer 2: ah, I see, so the delimiters are really "<\n" and "^>".

Probably does *not* need to be added to the blog post, then.

Author: Or to be very precise, `=<\n` and `^ >` (one space) with `^\t` for the lines in the middle :sweat_smile: 

Agreed, this doesn't need to be in the blog post.

integrated into [`klog.Flush`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2#Flush) by
registering the logger with the
[`FlushLogger`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/klog/v2#FlushLogger) option.

### Various other changes

For a description of all other enhancements see in the [release
notes](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog/releases).

## logcheck

Originally designed as a linter for structured log calls, the
[`logcheck`](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog/tree/main/hack/tools/logcheck)
tool has been enhanced to support also contextual logging and traditional klog
log calls. These enhanced checks already found bugs in Kubernetes, like calling
`klog.Info` instead of `klog.Infof` with a format string and parameters.

It can be included as a plugin in a `golangci-lint` invocation, which is how
[Kubernetes uses it
now](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/commit/17e3c555c5115f8c9176bae10ba45baa04d23a7b),
or get invoked stand-alone.

We are in the process of moving the tool into a [new
repository](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog/issues/312) because it isn't
really related to klog and its releases should be tracked and tagged properly.

## Next steps

> The Structured Logging WG is always looking for new contributors. The migration

Reviewer 2: should have a link here to https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-structured-logging

Author: Agreed.
